Spring Hill Board of Mayor and Aldermen
will come to order at 5:45 p.m. Let the
record reflect that all the members are
present except for Alderman Canepari. At
this time we're going to adjourn for
executive session.
Yes,
that's my car.
Board of Mayor Alderman Meen will
reconvene at 610 from the executive
session. Let the record show that Alderman
Canepari is now present. Mr. Eric Droek,
if you could please lead us in a word of
prayer. That's all, B. Father, I thank you
for the opportunity, Lord, to be together
again tonight. I thank you, God, that
you've kept us safe. It's been a dicey
era, a few days, and I thank you, Lord,
that you've kept us safe and you brought
us back together. God, I just want to
thank you, Lord, for the attitude of
service, Lord, that we witnessed over the
last few days. So many people have
volunteered and given and sacrificed and
put themselves in harm's way, God, to
serve their community through the ice and
through the storms. And I'm just grateful
for that. God, I ask that you would help
our hearts to line up with their attitudes
and their actions to have an attitude of
how can I help? And I feel like if we can
do that, Father, we will do what you've
called us to do, which is to bear one
another's burdens and to serve one
another. And in that way, God, we could
serve you.
God, I ask
that you would just give blessings
tonight, direct our hearts and direct our
decisions for your glory. In Jesus' name,
we pray. Amen. I wonder if we could all
stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance
to the flag of the United States of
America, and to the republic for which it
stands, one nation under God, indivisible
with liberty and justice for all. Thank
you, Mr. Droke. Looking for a motion on
the agenda. Vice Mayor Linville. Move to
approve the agenda. Motion to approve.
Second. Second by Alderman Murray. Are
there any edits to the agenda? Seeing
none, those in favor of the agenda, please
say aye. Aye. Agenda's approved 9 to 0. As
far as mayor's comments, tonight I'm going
to echo a little bit of what Mr. Droke
just said. I'm sure in acknowledgments
other people say the same things here as
well, but obviously police, fire, public
works all worked extremely hard over the
past week. I also want to recognize the
administrative staff, the EOC team, the
communications team, and the utility plant
operators. I've had many, many, many
comments from citizens commending y'all
for your work and want to make sure that
that's heard
and understood from y'all. Mr. Napier, any
comments? Any department heads, any
comments? Acknowledgments from the board?
All right, seen none. Is there any citizen
comment this evening? All right, seeing
none. Public hearing items, we have none.
Consent items, Ms. Goad, please. Consider
Resolution 2631 to authorize the purchase
of police vehicles and equipment. Consider
Resolution 2632 to approve renewal of
contract for annual plumbing services.
Consider Resolution 2633 to approve
renewal of
contract for annual electric service.
Consider Resolution 2634 to approve
renewal of contract for annual roofing
services.
Consider Resolution 2635 to approve
renewal of
contract for annual HVAC services.
Consider resolution 26-36 authorizing the
purchase and
implementation of an additional on-call
phone for
Spring Hill water to provide separate
dedication of on-call phones for water
distribution and sewer collections.
Consider resolution 26-37 to amend
resolution 24-226 to authorize an
additional task order with
Thomas and Hutton for evaluation of a
sewer lift station associated with
Consider Resolution 2638 to approve
recommendation of projects for the
neighborhood sidewalk program for fiscal
year 2026 fall. Consider Resolution 2639
to establish performance bond and
establish a maintenance bond for sanctuary
bluff Newport Royal Road. Consider
resolution 2640 to amend resolution 25165
to increase purchase order in the amount
of $7,200 for a total authorized amount of
$15,200. Consider resolution 2644 to
approve a professional services agreement
with BTA Consulting for pay plan update.
Conversion to a step up pay structure.
Thank you, Miss Goad. Move to approve the
consent agenda. Motion by Vice Mayor
Linville. Second. Second by Alderman
Murray. Please vote on the consent agenda.
Consent agenda is approved 9-0. Previous
business, there is no new business. Item
number one, consider resolution 26-4 41 to
adopt a fund balance policy and repeal
prior adopted fund balance policies.
Ms. Holden, please.
There have been no changes from the work
session.
I will be happy to answer any questions.
Ma'am, any comments? Vice Mayor Linville.
Mayor, I make a motion to approve
resolution 26-41.
Motion by Vice Mayor Linville.
Second.
Second by Alderman Murray. Yeah, one quick
comment. We talked about this at budget
and finance advisory committee today and
unanimously suggested to the board to
adopt this. Thank you, vice mayor.
Any comments or questions from the rest of
the board?
See none. Please vote on resolution 2641.
Item is approved 90-0 new business item
number two consider resolution 26-42 all
Authorizing a true-up of fund balance
classifications and
reimbursement to the general fund from the
Parkland commitment for Hurt Road Parkland
acquisition. Mayor, I make a motion to
approve resolution 26-42.
Motion by Vice Mayor Linville.
Second.
Second by Alderman Murray. Ms. Holden,
anything? This is what we discussed in the
work session and then I followed up with
you all an email about those details.
I'll be happy
to answer any questions. Thank you, Ms.
Holden. Vice Mayor Linville. Again on this
one, we talked about this at BFACT today
and made a unanimous recommendation to the
board to adopt this. Resolution. Thank
you, Vice Mayor Linville. Any additional
comments or questions from the board?
Please vote on resolution 26-42.
Item is approved 9-0.
New business.
Item number three, consider resolution
26-43 to
approve funds for phase two Walnut Street
Skate Park.
Mayor make a motion, excuse me, to approve
resolution 2643 to approve funds for phase
two Walnut Street skate park. Motion by
Alderman Murray, second. Second by Vice
Mayor Linville, Alderman Murray, it's your
item. Yeah, I just wanted to bring back
resolution like I mentioned in the last
meeting. There was
couple a of different items on there. So I
wanted to make sure that we brought back
just a single item to have before you
tonight.
And I just wanted to share that when
looking at this project, this is something
that we have been working on.
I guess it started 10 years ago. It gives
us an opportunity to finish a project that
could have Great impact on our
communities. You saw some last meeting who
came out to maybe speak toward it. And so
I'm really just trying to make sure that
it's something we want to do that we get
it completed. And I also think there's
some potential additional revenue that can
be brought in from tournaments and events
and things like that. Just wanted to share
that. Thank you, Alderman Murray. Comments
or questions from the board? Vice Mayor
Linville. Thank you, Mayor. I think this
could be a question for staff. I was
looking at the text of the resolution. It
outlines that the $950,000 was coming from
undesignated and unencumbered funds from
the general fund. Is this essentially is
the ask that it would come from unassigned
fund balance? With that language, yes.
Okay. I think with it coming from
unassigned
fund balance and even if it was from
Parkland, the Parkland fund or allocation
that the board has made, we're about to
kick off 27 budget cycle. We talked about
that at BFACT today. For a request that,
for requests that's
being requested from undesignated fund
balance. I think that needs to be
evaluated within the scope of all the
other requests that are being made before
the
board because we're so close to that
process.
I have a hard time
getting behind
going ahead and putting that in front of
the other things we'd be considering as
well.
So I would be open to a
potential deferral or unfortunately, I
wouldn't be
able to support this tonight. Thank you,
Vice Mayor Linville. Who is first?
Alderman Hartwell. Alderman Hartwell.
Alderman Fuqua. Thank you, Mayor. Alderman
Murray, we discussed a couple of different
things in BFAC this afternoon. Number one
is that we are looking out or looking at
closing the year in a deficit because of
our recent purchase.
So I don't know that the way that this
is written and where the money is coming
from that it would
be wise of this board to take action with
the way that it's written
to echo vice mayor's comments in regard to
the budget season and then even some
requests that I had made at the end of
BFAC, which I'll get into at round table.
I don't want to vote against this, so
probably here in a moment, if you do not,
I will ask for deferral. Thank you,
Alderman Fuqua, Alderman Hartwell. Thank
you. I wanted to hesitate for a minute
because he and I had been talking about
just how the budgets work in general. Our
last session when we were just wanting to
pull it from the current funding that we
had for parks and recs or it was one
section that we were going to pull it
from. But do we have, I guess my
question is, Rebecca, do we have a
fund where we could allocate, we could
pull it from anything else and say, okay,
well, we have this much we can use. Let's
just say we wanted to give someone a
raise. Where would we get that money from?
We would have to pull it out of a general
fund, right? So can we allocate different
things in different ways where we could
say, okay, this is how much we can give
you. This is all we have to work with
right now if we can't pull it from the,
the funding that we originally were going
to pull it from. So that's a loaded
question. So if, if you were to give
someone a raise and it costs 200, for
example, typically the department can find
that within their budget and move things
around and say, I can do without this
training. To cover for this employee's
raise. So typically it's by amount. With
this amount that you're looking at,
you're not going to be able to
squeeze it out of current budgeted items
in the general fund. And I think that's
why the request
is for it to come out of
unassigned fund balance, if that makes
sense, if that helps.
Thank you, Ms. Holden.
Mr. Napier, to add on to that, if you're
okay with that, Alderman Hartwell.
Thank you, Mr. Mayor and Aldermen, thanks
for the question. The only thing that I
would add
to Ms. Holden's response would be that
it would be super, super rare that we
would ever recommend using operational
money
to do a capital project.
And vice versa, it would be even more rare
that we would use one-time money or money
that we would otherwise
use for capital projects to balance the
general fund budgets.
So it's rare that I would ever see the two
intermingle and recommend to you
accordingly. Alderman Hartwell, the floor
is still yours. Okay, thank you. This
question is for you. With the current
residents that the use skate park, I know
that they're very hands on, they want it
to grow all the above, and we have a
special YouTuber that is there as well,
right? He also probably, if he's that
popular, he probably
gets paid for ads and all that good stuff.
I'm going to assume that because I went to
research him and tons of ads popped up. So
my question with that would be if he's
benefiting from our skate park, we don't
charge him, right, as we would, charge any
other resident to reserve the pavilion or
any of that, is that at all to him or to
anyone that uses it? Is there, if they, he
also said that he, I'm sorry, the baby, I
want to just go pick him up, where is he?
Hear him. It's okay. He's, I'm just
reminiscing on his conversation, y'all,
sorry. He said that he taught classes as
well. He's not teaching those classes for
free. So a lot of things that they're
doing in the skate park, they're
benefiting from it financially, but we're
having to
take the L for it. Not take the L, but
these are
things that they're supposed to be
expecting. They haven't gotten it yet, but
they're still pulling at us, but they're
not giving back. To us at the same time,
if that makes sense? So thank you for the
question. So to answer the first part of
it that I understood, none of our users
are charged to use any of the parks or the
amenities within the parks. It is a
benefit that is provided to community the
for to them use at their leisure. So even
if you were to rent a shelter for a
birthday party or family gathering,
whatever it is, there's no cost for that.
It is a service, a city service that the
city provides to the taxpaying residents
of this city. So there, I'm sure there are
lots of people who do lots of things in
the parks that may or may not benefit
them. If we know about them, if it is
someone asking us permission to do certain
things, we do have requirements and city
policies that we follow. To work with them
on that. But even at that level, let's say
someone was going to do a soccer clinic
for a week or something like that, we
would get some information, some things
that we need, but we still don't charge
for that ability to be able to do that.
That goes for our leagues as well as the
individual user. Is there anything else
that I did not cover? Thank you, Alderman
Hartwell. Alderman Jimenez. Thank you,
Mayor. I just want to echo what the rest
of the BFACT board members said. We really
need to true this budget up first to
figure out is there enough money? Are we
going to have the money to complete some
of the projects that are ahead of this?
The last thing I want to see, and this is
something that we talked about at BFACT,
we start a project only to not end it
completed, right? And so if we get in a
position where we say, hey, $950,000 and
we figure out we need money elsewhere,
We stop, we're $400,000 into it, now we
have a project that's halfway completed
that does more harm than good. I want the
kids to have a place to enjoy themselves,
but we need to make sure that when we
commit to completing and doing something,
we're capable of committing and completing
it all the way through. There's a lot of
other really big items on this that the
board has to get done and these capital
improvements that need to be completed
that we voted on as a board to prioritize.
And so with that being said again, I want
to see this done. We just have to find a
way to do it that we're not stopping other
things that we agreed to as a board to
complete first. Thank you, Alderman
Jimenez, Alderman Davis. Thank you, Mayor.
I'm gonna echo what Alderman Fuqua said. I
want to say yes to this, but I also want
to support what we're doing and make sure
that we do sure up things. But I would
love to see, you know, I agree with
Alderman Jimenez as well. You know, we
need to have this for the children.
This is part of Spring Hill Living, having
nice parks.
We don't want to put a park together and
then halfway finish it. So I do believe we
probably need to consider putting some
kind of fund
together,
at least in the future, if not now,
because we don't have the funds to do it,
that will help us start to finish
projects, especially when it comes to
things that are facilities for the
community to use. So I want to say yes,
but right now, I don't, don't I feel like
that would be the right thing to do
knowing that we're pulling from somewhere
else. And I'm not 100% sure of where we're
pulling from right now. Thank you,
Alderman Davis, Alderman Canepari. Thanks,
Mayor. I'm just gonna, I am also in favor
of bringing this to Spring Hill. I think
the enjoyment, we did a study a while back
that said that one thing Spring Hill was
missing was kind of things for the kids to
do. And this looks like a perfect thing
and it attracts many, many teens and many
kids.
So it's something that really needs to be
done. As I want to remind the board that
resolutions can be amended, like 23-113
can be amended. Amen to that because when
we drafted it, we made a mistake in the
wording. We said the purpose was for
parkland acquisition. The purpose was
really to increase the enjoyment of our
community, especially the teens. So if we
go back and think about why we actually
wanted to buy the land and why we set up a
fund, a sinking fund to do that, We would
all agree that the purpose behind 113,
23-113, was the enjoyment of the kids. And
that includes modifying what we already
have. So my take on it is that we're
missing the boat if we're going to push
this again, kick this down the can down
the road, because it's not going to make
it the next time either. We'll find
something to replace it with. We have an
opportunity and we have a price What we
need to do is amend 23-113 to include the
words and modifications to improve because
that was the real purpose of us looking to
buy parkland. Okay? So I'm taking that as
my take on this. And as far as Alderman
Hartwell,
Yes,
it's true they make money, and they must
be like a 10% of the people who use the
park as skate park. 90% of them don't make
any money. They just go to enjoy it, and
it's free. So we can't compare apples and
oranges. Yeah, they make money on it, but
they're entitled to do that. And according
to what they told us, they have
volunteered hours to fix on their own
accord and put their own time and money
and effort into that. Maybe it's not
enough to 950,000, but it is enough. They
didn't have to do it at all. So that's
where I go. And tonight I'm voting yes
unless it's deferred. Vice Mayor Linville,
I haven't had my turn yet, so I'm going to
take it before I go back to you for the
second time. I just want the board to
recall back in April we said we're going
to put together a reoccurring CIP process.
We had really gotten away from that
process as a city where we could sit and
plan out our top capital needs and
have a financial plan that comes with it.
So in April we tasked staff to get all of
the department needs from all the various
departments, pulled together 30 plus
projects, right? We had a special call
meeting in September, went through all the
projects, went back individually ranked
them, staff compiled the rankings, This
came in 25th out of 29. I have not heard
anybody explain why we are now treating
this project separately from the rest of
the 29. If you put any value in the
planning and the financial planning of the
CIP process, this doesn't need to be
deferred. This needs to be voted down. I
think it's really offensive that we're
taking a project that's ranked so low and
treating it separate from the other ones.
We don't have a final financial plan for
our top 10 projects, including projects
that are mandated to get us out of the
consent order and the sewer moratorium. So
the idea that we would take a million
dollars worth of general fund money and
allocate it to something that was ranked
24th, 24th, 28th, 25th, 23rd, 22nd, not
ranked at all, is just financially
reckless. My number one CIP project was
outside of the top 10. If I brought a
resolution next month to fund it out of
general fund balance, it should upset
every single one of you and you should
vote it down. I will not support a
deferral on this. I will support defeating
this. And I will expect everybody to work
collaboratively so we can plan
appropriately, we can financially plan
appropriately, and we're all going to
accept the collective group outcomes,
whether they meet our individual needs and
goals or not. This isn't deprioritizing
parks in any way. There's five projects
that were park projects that ranked higher
than this, including multiple ones in the
top ten. We are investing and committing
into parks. What I'm not supportive of
doing is ignoring our planning process,
ignoring the staff efforts, and running
flavors of the day. Vice Mayor Linville,
if you want to go. Alderman Fuqua, do you
want to go? Anybody else? Alderman Murray.
Thank you, Mayor. Just real quick
question. I certainly understand what
you're saying, and I want us to be
fiscally responsible in all that we do,
and then especially in the projects that
we choose. And I just wanted to give you
some background backstory, it wasn't about
prioritization of the exercise that we
did. It was with funds in Parkland, that's
what it was designed to where funds were
designed to be pulled from. When we
decided to put that money out of this fund
into the general fund was the only caveat
that was between the two of them to try to
still do a project with that money. So if
I remember correct, and I correct me if
I'm wrong, but we saw a great opportunity
to move on Station Hill. That wasn't, I
don't think, anywhere. CSA Phase 2 was a
top 10 project. Correct. It was a $21
million project that we replaced with a $6
million project. So it was a top 10
project. It was not stated that way when
we did the priority skill, priority
session. So I understand, I think that's
great. I believe we made the right call.
I was just simply saying that we have some
autonomy with things that we would like to
do. If something's going to save us a lot
of money, I'm all for it because it's the
taxpayers' money.
I'm just simply saying that this is a
project that did start. Somebody talked
about completing projects. Well, it
started in 2015. I mean, it was going to
cost 637,000 if I remember correctly, when
we looked at it in 2022. It's now up to
915,000. I'm just simply saying this is a
way to go ahead and finish something that
we actually started in 2015 and doing it
at an amount, I understand it's $950,000,
I'm just the saying reason I brought it
forward is because the next time we look
at it, should the board say no, the next
time we look at it, it's going to be more
than that. that So was my only rationale
from it was if we see if we have that
autonomy, if we see something that could
benefit the city, be a savings to the
city, you know, we can do things like
that. So just wanted to provide some
clarity as to the why. Please vote on
resolution 2643. Item fails, two to seven.
Work session, item number one, discussion,
Southern Route sewer reserve allocation
request. Mr. Allen. Thank you, Mayor. We
have a couple of these on here tonight.
Just wanted to give you an update and then
I believe somebody representing the
applicant is here to speak as well. As
well. I wanted to afford you the
opportunity. If there's anybody from
Southern Roots, come on ahead and make
your way to the podium while Mr. Allen's
talking
then.
Our staff has started reviewing this.
We've had a few questions, been going
back and forth with their engineer. We
expect to get that resolved and have a
recommendation in two weeks at the next
BOMA meeting. If you want to identify
yourself and add any additional
information that you think the board
needs, I feel we might have some questions
for y'all.
Absolutely. My name is Hamilton Brooks.
I'm a shop construction. I live in
Thompson Station.
Dr. McKittrick is the owner of the Hopeful
Future Southern Roots Endodontics. And so
I've come up here on behalf of her in the
past and just wanted to use this as an
introduction. We've got Dr. McKittrick.
We've
got our engineer, Tim Little. We also have
Emma Copeland, who is from our
architecture team. And then Dr.
McKittrick's husband and their
three children are here as well. So, Dr.
McKittrick? Yes, my name is Dr. Catherine
McKittrick. I am the owner of Southern
Roots Endodontics. Been a member of our
community here for about six years. My
home is about seven minutes from the
practice. So really hoping to, you know,
really further integrate our family into
the community and hoping that we can get a
positive resolution on this. Hopefully as
quickly as possible as, you know, the
project's been in process for
quite some time and really hoping to open
our doors and be able to serve the
community from our dental standpoint.
Thank you. Anything else from y'all then?
Comments or questions from the board? Let
me start off with a couple. What are you
bringing with this project that's
otherwise not available in Spring Hill? we
As look at, you know, our sewer capacity,
we have a limited amount of capacity to
allocate. I think this board has, you
know, individually and collectively in the
past expressed
that we want to hold on to those
reservations for things that are unique
and add value into the community.
Obviously, accessibility to healthcare is
one of those things, but talk to us about
what what it is, it would be added value
to the citizens by giving you this
allocation. So as an endodontist, I
specialize in root canals, which if any of
you have ever had one, we're not always
people's favorite, but there's only 3,000
endodontists in the country as a whole. So
we were able to provide pain-free root
canal procedures for patients that may not
otherwise have that ability. Yes, general
dentists can provide root canal
procedures, which is very common.
However, as an endodontist, I have an
additional two years of training beyond
dental school in order to provide the
service for patients. So we see difficult
cases, we see advanced treatments, we do
some surgical root canal procedures. So
it's a very specialized niche group of
people. That can provide this service to
our citizens. So we do already have an
endodontist in town. I mean, is that
practice at capacity? What is it that
makes you think there's enough patient
volume for it to go around? Great
question. Where are you practicing now?
Where are you drawing patients from now?
So I was practicing in Hendersonville. I'm
currently practicing in South Carolina as
I'm waiting for my hopeful practice to
open. So I work Tuesday through Thursday
and
I stay the weekend in South Carolina. And
then I work Monday through Thursday and I
fly back to Spring Hill to spend a four
day weekend with my family, which I have
been doing since July. So I will be
bringing patients in.
As I said, I did work. I worked in Cool
Springs for a little bit and then I worked
in Hendersonville. So Obviously Spring
Hill is growing, we all know this, and
there's more general dentists that have
come in. Primarily my referrals come from
general dentists, so relationships with
those dentists to get referrals to the
practice. Comments or questions from the
rest of the board? Alderman Warner. Thanks
for coming today and appreciate this and
your service. When did you start this
process of attempting to start the
business here in Spring Hill. So I signed
a lease in April of 2025. Okay. And what
drew you to Spring Hill specifically? My
home is here. We're setting down roots
here.
My daughter plays softball for Spring Hill
Little League. I coached her for four
seasons.
My husband is a den leader through the Cub
Scouts of America. Boy Scout.
Sorry.
Scouting America. So, I mean, just had
roots here. Our children go to school at
Heritage Elementary.
So just really trying to continue to lay
down roots and make Spring Hill our
community. Very good. Thank you. Alderman
Fuqua. Thank you, mayor. If the lease has
been signed to since April, why the
hesitation on business license and
executing the dream and vision. So we've
been working with, I've been working with
my architectural team during that entire
time. It started just with a dental
development
company, kind of hammering out floor plan
details, getting the architectural team on
board, and then just kind of working
through
that process to have our floor plan
and all of the engineering and stuff to go
through. And then our permit was submitted
September 23rd, I believe. Very good.
I will take that into consideration. One
of the things that I want you to be aware
of with the sewer moratorium that the city
is experiencing now, we have a reservation
capacity, which is what you're asking for.
Yes, sir. One of my mindsets with this is
we're going to have a lot of requests and
a lot of denials into the mayor's office.
At this point, access to healthcare is
certainly something that should be
considered. However, me individually have
a great deal of concern whether or not the
reservation exists. Mr. Allen, that's not
a comment towards, in any negative way,
towards your team and your research.
However, the largest bit of comfort room
that we can have matters. If I give a vote
in confirmation to allow you what prevents
me or gives me any authority on what comes
next.
So if the board sees to look
at it, I'll consider your investment since
April, really considering the reservation
or real capacity to the sewer system.
Alderman Davis. Thank you, Mayor. Thanks
for coming by or coming to us for this.
And, yeah, this is going to be a hard
decision because what comes next is a
great question. If we say yes to you, then
who else is going to come next? So, as the
mayor said, we have another, how do you
say it? Endodontics. Did I say that right?
Endodontics. Yes.
Dentists here in the area.
And you said you're working primarily in
South Carolina right now. You have some
people in Cool Springs who you've worked
with, dentists, I presume. What is your
marketing plan? What have you done right
now to secure business in our area and the
surrounding areas that you have actively
been doing? Because if we are going to
give this to you, we definitely, or I
definitely want it to be a benefit to our
citizens, right? But also that means
you've got to get out there and make sure
everybody knows about you because we're
giving you with a little bit of capacity
that we have. So what's in your marketing
plan? What have you done? What have you
done to already reach out? And how many
dentists do you have that are committed to
referring you at this point? So I've
maintained a lot of those relationships
that I had established. There's some
providers with Aspen, some Heartland, some
of those bigger group kind of corporate
dental entities that are in town. Like I
said, kept those contacts, but we've
unfortunately been delayed, you know, a
few times. And so it's kind of hard, you
know, they've had to find other providers
in the interim in order to have their
patients have that care.
And, you know, when I was practicing in
Cool Springs, yes, there's an endodontist
here in Spring Hill, but ultimately
patients are looking for, you know, who
takes my insurance, who has excellent
reviews. And the practice that I'm at in
South Carolina right now, I mean, We're
getting stellar five-star reviews. People
want to go to a place where they feel
welcome, where they feel cared for, where
they're, you know, again, it's a specialty
practice. So we have state-of-the-art
equipment and I have not visited the
practice here in town, but I have been a
member of our community. I have been a
member of the Endodontic community. I
haven't met this person to know even, you
know, kind of where they stand in the
community. So, I mean, I, My plan is once
I have a date to open, then I can really
kind of push forward with that marketing
plan. And yes, it includes feet to the
pavement, visiting those offices, talking
to those doctors. I have been practicing
for eight years, so I'm not a new
provider. People are looking at how long
does it take to get the service. Nobody
wants to be in the dental chair for three
hours plus. I mean, I bring a lot of
skill, a lot of experience to that, but as
far as, you know, actively being able to
market, root canals are an emergency based
procedures. People want to be seen today.
They want to be seen tomorrow. They want
to be seen next week. And if I go out now
and say, I'm opening a practice in Spring
Hill in six months, they look at me and
go, that's nice. You know, come back when
you're a month from opening. Come back
when, When you can really serve my
patients. So yes, I've maintained those
contacts, but nobody's knocking down the
door at the moment because there's no
opening date. I would like to see when you
come back how you are different from the
current doctor we have here and can
benefit our community more so and what
edge you would have that stands out.
Different that would be worth that sewer
capacity. So one of the things that I am
capable of doing, and again, I don't know
for sure, but I do
have
IV sedation certification, so that's
something that not a lot of endodontists
do possess. So that's an additional
service that we can provide in our office
that most, I know of one endodontist in
the Cookville area that provides that
service. Otherwise, they're really aren't
any.
So that's one addition that we can provide
with our practice. Thank you, Alderman
Davis. Vice Mayor Linville. Thank you,
Mayor. Thanks for being here tonight. I'm
a fellow small business owner, and so I
understand the financial risk that it
takes to go out into business and make
financial outlay. So I fully understand
the position you find yourself in. Can you
describe what is the financial outlay been
so far for anticipating opening up this
space. Roughly.
What do you mean?
Like how much money
that we've invested? Roughly $40,000. I
have a business loan but I
can't tap into that business loan until
we've signed a few more, you know,
actually get the process going. So yes,
that's been money out of my pocket. The
$40,000 to $50,000 about. The other thing
about me working in South Carolina, it's
purely out of necessity. It's not out of
the desire. When I left the practice in
Hendersonville, I have a non-compete that
prevents me
from working pretty much in the greater
Nashville area. When I was negotiating to
get out of that non-compete what that
negotiation looked at was a bubble in
Spring Hill. That's about a two and a half
mile radius. So my current space is in
that bubble. So if this is voted down,
which hopefully it isn't, you know, then I
have to go back outside. That radius and
that pushes me basically south. I can't go
anywhere, maybe into Kentucky, but I don't
want to drive to Kentucky. I mean, I want
to be seven minutes from my home. I want
to be home for dinner. I want to be a
softball coach again. I want to be able to
do those things. So, I mean, you've heard
my son in the background, you know, he's
three. I've been away for six months. It's
really not fun. So it's, again, not out of
choice. It's strictly out of necessity.
And thankfully, I've had the opportunity
to to be able to do that and continue to
pay the bills that come up with the
attorney fees and the architectural fees
and all the other things that come into
opening a small business. Yeah, I can't
imagine wanting to fly to South Carolina
from Spring Hill unless it's absolutely
necessary and there's a compelling reason.
So with the lease that you have in place
right now, would it be essentially
something you're locked into if this
wasn't approved? Or is there an out in the
lease? I mean, there is an out in the
lease for, you know, not being able to use
the space for its intended purpose. Yeah,
understand the financial business risk
that you're going through. I do appreciate
that you're a Spring
Hill citizen who's wanting to invest in
the community. So that'll weigh heavily in
my decisions. And thank you for being
here. Thank you, vice mayor Linville.
Otterman Jimenez, please.
Thank you, mayor. It's been said over and
over, we have this little bubble of
capacity that we have to be protective of,
right? But you've said a couple things
that
tells me even though we have to protect
this, if I'm going to give
it to anybody, you've mentioned some
qualities of a person that I would give it
to, such as a resident here, a person that
contributes to the community, a person
that gives back, right? Being rooted
within this community, if I'm
going to give anybody something that I
have that I desire and I hold near and
dear to me, it's going to be someone that
also contributes to the things that I get
to to do here. I don't know if you
mentioned softball because you do my
passion with softball, but you hit a chord
with me, right? And I get, listen, that
you're going to South Carolina out of
necessity to feed and provide for your
family. I can't say me myself wants to. I
can't approve this on my own, right? But
if I was to make a determination on who I
thought would be a person that's a good
candidate for what it is that we to me,
you rank high on that list. I'm not as
concerned with the competition because
let's face it, I run a mortgage company.
There's tons of competition here. Should I
be put out of business because I can't
have my practice? I just moved to a
different building. My building was
already built, but I just moved to a
different building. I don't ever want to
find myself in a position where I'm outed
from the community simply because the
practice I want to do is no longer
approved here, right?
That being said, again, I get there's
other, however you say this difficult
word, and I get that you're not a person
most people want to see, but maybe you're
the best person for that position. Maybe
the person that's here is second rate or
maybe they're the best. I don't know. What
I do know is you live here, you desire to
reinvest here, you pay taxes here, you
spend money here. The city is benefiting
by you being here. We're not benefiting by
you being in South Carolina. All that to
say, these are the type of people I want
to see be successful in our community.
Thank you, Alderman Jimenez, Alderman
Canepari.
Thanks.
Hello. This is a question for Mr. Allen.
The applicant's letter, the last
paragraph, says that If a five-day patient
week is considered, this would be an
average uses of just over 20 gallons per
day, assuming a four-week month.
Has anybody on your staff checked it or
agree with it?
That's one of the things that we're
discussing with them. So, yes, we're
checking it and we're gonna discuss that.
You think it's reasonable? Well, one of
the concerns that we have generally as we
look at not just this particular one, but
just globally with a variety of different
meetings and requests that are going on,
is generally I always try and operate
under the principle of don't put anything
in place that you
can't actually enforce. And this certainly
seems to be falling into that realm of
discussion internally with us. And so how
do you regulate a four-day work week
versus a five-day work week? Versus
averaging these things and looking at
that. So we are preparing some stuff to
send back to their engineer, Mr. Little,
and talk a little bit about clarifying
some statements back so that we can get
this more on something that's a little
more palatable. I have some reservations
about us making a recommendation to the
board based on a possible four-day
scenario versus a five-day scenario. We
just need to know what the scenario is
that we're planning and projecting for.
And make sure that we've got enough there
to cover it. And so we will get, that's
something that we need to get worked out
before we come back with a formal
recommendation to you guys. If I'm
mistaken, correct me, but this would be
true for any applicant that runs a
business. There's no way of enforcing if
they four days, five days, six days, or
seven days. You look at the hours that are
on the door that says we're open from nine
to five, which is why in the legal
framework that we established in the
moratorium, we required actual flow
monitoring to go along with it. So there
is a trust but verify
principle in place legally. So we do plan
to put a meter on these. It's very
challenging in this situation, John. I
mean, you're talking about a multi-story
multi-tenant building with one connection.
So one of the conversations we have to go
back and check on is
we need to look at master meeting on water
versus potential sub metering. And we're
likely going to have to put something in
place with them where we're going to have
to measure potential
sub meters on sub spaces to be able to
measure out what's already there
and already been allocated in the system
versus the new use being added onto it to
measure the difference. We've got a number
of folks on my staff looking at the
specifics on that that we're trying to
work through. Okay, so again, this isn't
unique. This situation is going to come up
again. And from some of the comments I
heard from the board, I'm wondering why
we're even entertaining any requests,
because it sounds like between not giving
up any of our reserve and not being able
to account for what's being monitored or
lack of monitoring, why are we even
entertaining? Why don't we just stick to
the moratorium and say nobody has an
application in. Because here's a health
provider that was saying, hey, let's take
a look at this. There's only one other
provider in Spring Hill. I guess the
question I have is we're asking the wrong
doctor how busy she's going to become. We
should be asking the other doctor how busy
They are, or he or she is, and maybe
Googling them and finding out some of the
comments that they have for their practice
before we start hammering on this
applicant who seems to be a resident and a
citizen and giving back to the community,
her husband and her family. So I guess I'm
confused. Either we're going to entertain
these, and decide whether an applicant can
get a dispensation or not. If we're gonna
talk about, well, you know, we got this
capacity, we gotta hang onto it, well, we
have criteria set up, I thought. And one
of them is healthcare. So I don't see why
we're questioning how many of these we
have. The city's growing evidently large
enough to get Tristar. Another hospital. I
know people perk up when the word Tristar
comes up, but hey, you know, so if we're
big enough for that, and you're right,
you're right, doctor. Dentists, I mean,
they're like, they're like pumpkin seeds.
They're growing. Every place you look is
another dental office. So these people
have to refer to an endodontist somewhere.
And so You got my vote. Vice Mayor
Linville. I'm sorry, Alderman Hartwell,
have you gone? Alderman Hartwell. Thank
you, Mayor. This question is for Dara,
Miss Sanders. And again, I'm business
owner just playing devil's advocate asking
this question. If she were to find a
location that was a previous doctor's
office, would there be any question at
this point?
The path forward would definitely have
fewer
hurdles, I'll say that. So, Ordinance 2529
was written to say that development
services, particularly the codes division,
may issue a tenant improvement building
permit as long as we are able to confirm
that the proposed use,
the sewer
demand associated with the proposed use is
equal to or less than the previous use.
In this case, there is no previous
use to the space because there was no
previous tenant. And so that's where this
hurdle has occurred for this particular
tenant space.
So if we were to, or if
you, Doc, were to find a temporary spot,
until our moratorium is all laid out and
then go back to your
current builder and say, hey, we're ready
to go.
If it's still available, we'd love to make
this our home. And you have time to build
your business at that time, too. That's
always an option.
Alderman Canepari, when we, this is for
you, sir, when things will continue to
come to us, we can't ignore it if someone
is putting it on the agenda for us to talk
about it. We want to give our citizens the
time to express how they feel, right? So
I'm thankful that you came to us and told
us she's just one of many that are brave
enough to come up here and say what she
feels and what she wants. We're going to
have to turn down some. We're not going to
put them in place of others. You know,
you're number one, you're better than the
other. Obviously, we have to keep it black
and white and say, this is where we are,
this is what our CIP has said we're going
to do, and we have to follow it. If we're
all on the same path and looking the same
way, then that's how we have to do it. But
you can always get something temporary.
That's what I would do. Thank you,
Alderman Hartwell. If you care to respond,
go ahead. Well, not only am I, you know,
supportive as her husband, but I will be
the practice manager when the office
opens. And I think something that's
getting downplayed a little bit is that we
have one office here in Spring Hill. I
think you're speaking about one that's in
North Spring Hill, it's near Thompson
Station.
So again, it's a mostly an emergency based
business. It's not like a standard general
dentist
who sees a large amount of people during a
day. They see endodontics between 5-10
people a day max and if they have some
extra space they fit in those emergency
patients. So anybody in Spring Hill who
has an emergency endodontically, it's a
terrible thing and you want it done today.
Well if that one in Spring Hill is full
up, Then the next one is north and then
just keeps going north and north and
north. So when you get up into Brentwood
and Nashville, you have many choices. Here
in Spring Hill, we don't. It's one and
then it's then you may have a 45 minute
drive.
Again, you're in pain.
You want to be out of it as soon as
possible. Now, in terms of being able to
do a temporary thing, we're talking about
Buying dental chairs, having people come
in and structurally make sure the building
can handle microscopes. All that's a huge
expense and to move it is not something
somebody would think about on a whim. That
would be a permanent change to either
upgrade your office and/or move, not
necessarily just wanting a new building or
to upgrade. It would be a massive
undertaking to switch once you were to set
that second office. Sorry, if I may. Our
company does 15-plus dental practices a
year from a construction standpoint along
with many other market segments. But
because of the timeline that I've been
doing that, I've become very ingrained in
the dental community. From dental specific
CPAs, financial advisors, architects, and
healthcare commercial real estate focused
companies. There are very, very few, if
any, former dental practices that are just
waiting for a dentist to come in and take
that over. Those things are snatched up
immediately because of the advantages that
they offer.
The med gas is roughed in, the
plumbing is roughed in, slight
modifications for the specific equipment.
But from a temporary solution, that's
probably next to zero of that space being
there that is available to receive the
dental equipment. Then in conjunction with
the cost that that would require to set up
a temporary practice of which is a
landlord even going to take a short-term
lease on a dental space. So what I've seen
in the market is dental practices aren't
just sitting there. And if they are,
they're snatched up immediately, which
makes a temporary solution very, very hard
to solve. Thank you. For what it's worth,
I used to work for a national pediatric
DSO, and you're correct. You build dental
spaces from the ground up, or you get a TI
improvement.
You don't walk into one.
Alderman Linville. Excuse me, Vice Mayor
Linville. Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Carter,
this is a question for you. This is the
first one of these we've considered. And
so is there anything that the board should
be aware of as far as, like, our standard
of review
and how an approval might impact later
judgments that we might pass? I think as a
legislative body of the city, you have
plenty of discussion. Judgment about how
you want to use your reservation, which I
understand is, what, 100,000. What exactly
is 100,000?
100,000 gallons. So I think you have
plenty of discretion. Okay. Thank you,
Alderman Davis. Thank you, mayor. I just
want to reiterate, I know I seemed hard on
that because sometimes I come across with
the marketing, but I, too, am a small
business owner, and I did have the
challenge of trying to find a place, and
mine's not as intricate as yours. I just.
Desks.
And I do know that there, there's a
challenge trying to find a place in Spring
Hill.
And I do favor the
fact that
you're, you're a health care provider and
it's, you're a person that's contributing
to our community. And there is only one
other doctor that does this in our area,
and we are growing. So I am going to take
all that into consideration because that
does mean a lot to me. So I just wanted
you to have to that one tip. Thank you,
Alderman Davis, Alderman Jimenez. Thank
you, Mayor. I want to toss this out for us
to take under consideration. I think this
is the most overlooked part. You signed a
lease prior to the moratorium taking
place. Yes, sir. You spent 40 plus
thousand dollars on a vision. This
morning, my daughter cleaned her room with
the intent if I clean my room, I get to go
outside. She cleaned it. If we said no, we
would have
shattered every vision, everything we
taught her that is right.
That to me is the most important thing
when we take the consideration of where
we're going to direct this. This is a
vision her and her family had. Was that
me? Oh, this one's fun. I thought I heard
feedback, sorry. This was a vision her and
her family had prior to us running into a
wall. That we can't move. We have a way to
solve a problem and create a vision that
comes to reality. When we look at
considerations, we look at the fact that
this family spent this money, spent this
time, took this vision and sat around
their dining room table talking about
their future. By the way, that's not going
to move quickly. It's not like they're
selling mattresses, right? They're not
going in and saying, load them up. Oh, it
failed. Take them out to, to Mayor Matt's
point or mayor fitter's point. It takes a
lot to build this. That tells me there's
commitment here. We have to look at the
fact these individuals did this prior to
the moratorium taking place. They invested
money prior to this taking place. This
building was constructed prior to this
taking place. Even though it wasn't built
out, we're impacting more than just her
income. We're impacting the landlord's
income. We're impacting the management
company's income? Are we going to sit,
which I know we can't fill every building
here in Spring Hill, but are we going to
sit with an empty building and say, sorry,
landlord, no money for you. The businesses
that want to move in there, they're just
not good enough. Or are we going to take
action and honor some of the things that
we should as individuals and say, hey,
this family had a vision and they check
all the boxes, whatever those boxes may
be. Let's help make this a reality. So
that's my stance is very is clear on where
my direction of this is going to be. Thank
you, Alderman Jimenez, Alderman Murray.
Thank you, Mayor. I think Alderman Jimenez
summed that up very well. I appreciate the
fact that you live here in Spring Hill. I
appreciate that you're heavily involved in
softball. I have a, unfortunately, an
eight-year-old who's going to be trying
out in a week or two.
And I'll just leave it at that.
But I appreciate your commitment to Spring
Hill. And certainly that's something I
consider. It was just shared that this all
started prior to the moratorium. And I'm
sure for a number of reasons, you know,
it's still going on. So I just want you to
know for me, I mean, I take that into
consideration. I certainly appreciate your
commitment to Spring Hill. And I believe
it's okay to have multiple, I won't
pronounce it right, whatever you do, Doc.
I won't pronounce it right, whatever you
do, Doc. I think it's good that there'll
be more than one of you. But most
importantly, you're one of us. You live
here, you're raising your family here. And
real quick, just a question, Dan, on the
chart, the 240 gallons per day, and then I
see that it full build out goes to like
440. Technically, obviously that moves
from 10 to 20, I mean that moves in
accordance with as the business grows is
what I'm understanding. And excuse me, is
that how we're looking at this projected
calculation for gallons per day? We'll
work with the applicant to project for
their full build out, that way they can If
the board chooses to do it, they can have
their full business plan accounted for.
You gotta be careful, she's already got a
loan in place. So, I would be very leery
of us saying, yes, but this much versus
that. You only get to do this many seats
versus that seat type. We need to get
apples to apples on the allocation and
make sure we're measuring it right, and
then give them clarity so that they can go
execute and do what they need to do. Yeah,
I completely agree. I just had a question
about it. I just didn't know if that, how
that was kind of set up. And so, but thank
you for what you do. Thank you, Alderman
Murray. If I may. Yes, ma'am, go ahead. I
would like to emphasize part of the reason
that Mr. Allen and Development Services
reached out to us was we submitted for
building permit prior to the sewer
moratorium going into place. And I'm sure
you've heard that plenty. I'm just trying
to make sure She's getting everything
accounted for. And the second point is you
ask what's different about Dr. McKittrick?
When I had to share with her that her
building had to be stopped and would not
be reviewed by codes, she thanked me for
my hard work and for pushing to try and
get this taken care of. That is a
compassion that does not come often, and I
think it speaks to how she will treat her
patients and your citizens. Thank you. Any
other Alderman Fuqua? Sorry. When was the
original application made? September 23rd.
And it was delayed. No, my understanding
with most City submittals and building
reviews, it takes a approximately a month
for the first review before we receive any
initial comments. Been done, Ms. Sanders?
Alderman Fuqua, yes. So the reason. So
they made their application for the tenant
Improvement building permit the week
before the board of mayor and aldermen
passed the resolution temporarily
suspending the issuance of permits. So
they were caught up in that temporary
pause while the city assessed our sewer
demand, sewer commitments and sewer
capacity availability. During the pause,
applicants were given the option of either
withdrawing, pausing or allowing the
review to continue at their own risk. My
understanding, based on an update from my
staff recently, was that the review has
been completed. I take that back. The
review has been completed. However, there
were additional changes or improvements
that needed to be made based on building
code and fire codes requirement for
ingress and egress. Yes, we are making
coordination efforts with the other
tenants to alleviate any egress issues.
All right, thank you. Anything in closing
from y'all, Zin? I have something to say.
So I guess this would be the time to just
put everything out on the table. We've
been discussing this. If this doesn't go
through, we may not be able to stay. In
Tennessee. Okay, I won't be able to be a
softball Spring Hill girls softball coach
and I won't be able to be a wee blow den
leader here in pack 25 here in Thompson
Station. So I mean, not only will our
family be affected but I mean the
community will be affected and I don't
know about the other Applicants, because
obviously we're talking about this a lot,
that there will be other needs and for
this stuff, but I don't know their
specifics and if their family will be so
integral and tied into this decision.
Because when you leave a dental office and
you have that non-compete, the thought is
that you're leaving to either go someplace
else, because they don't want to compete
with you here in the area. But down here
in Spring Hill, I mean, if we don't get in
somebody else and probably a fourth and
Adonis will be here pretty soon just
because the city is growing so fast. So we
want to be here first or second and we
want to be able to provide the best that
Dr. McKittrick can do. She's great. But
not only will the city not get her
expertise, but they may lose the
McKittrick family. Thank you for coming
tonight and making your case. We
appreciate it. I believe Mr. Allen will
have a resolution of some kind at the
voting session in two weeks. Is that fair
to say? Contingent upon technical
information being exchanged? My staff's
been directed to help these people with
the intent of making a recommendation for
approval in two weeks. Great. Well, thank
you. I will tell you your three-year-old
is roughly a thousand percent better
behaved than mine would have been tonight.
So you are doing something right. Thank
you all. Thank you all. I'm going to go
ahead and skip to number four so we can
stay on sewer reserve allocation request
and go to 12 Stone Health Partners. I do
believe we have a representative from 12
Stone as well. Mr. Allen, I know there's
less information from staff available on
this, but if you have anything to update
the board while she's coming forward. It's
essentially the same update. We've been
talking with them. We're working through
it. And hopefully here in a couple weeks,
we'll have a final recommendation for you
guys. Ma'am, if you can remind us who you
are again and then again, kind of answer
some of the same questions that you heard.
What is 12th Street do? What's the value
add to the community? Sure, my name is
Cindy Nix and I represent 12 Stone Health
Partners. We exist in the community right
here on Stephen P. Jokisch. We've been
there for five years. We provide infusion
services. Last year we saw 3,000 patients
in this community who have chronic and
complex conditions, everything from MS to
diabetes to Crohn's, there's just all
kinds of conditions that we see. Our
patients can be infused anywhere from an
hour to six hours. And so I had submitted
to Tim here some information and I thought
we had covered everything because our
patients kind of, we may see 11 patients
one day, we may see five the next, it's
all determined on our scheduling and based
on the length of infusions. And so anyway,
we are just moving our lease expired and
last it expires at the end of June, but I
started last July working on a new lease
and we got it signed in August at the end
of August. And so we started moving
forward with our drawings and everything.
Our lease was up here and Due to our
neighbors, we couldn't control what was
next door to us. It was a restaurant and a
meat market, and we have all kinds of
issues with that, being a healthcare
company being next door. So we found this
location, and we started our drawings and
everything and turned our permit in in
November, and I didn't find out until
December, like mid-December, that it
wasn't going forward. I wasn't given a
notice that said, you know, I had a choice
of stopping the process, But, you know, we
were still moving forward and I think the
permit is in. And so then we've been
answering. I hired Tim to come in and
answer the questions. And so that's where
we are today. So can I ask a couple
questions? You said you do 3,000 patients
or so across the street annually. What'd
you do the year before? I would have to
have that. I'm just generally asking, I
mean, is the growing business growing
where we would expect sewer demand to to
grow year over year or is 3,000 fairly
mature for a clinic? I think that's mature
for us. In this new clinic, the reason
that we're moving again is because our
lease is up. We're not giving a bigger
footprint. We only have two restrooms.
You're not adding chairs or infusion rooms
or PK rooms or anything like that? We
still have two restrooms and then we have
a sink in our med room and a sink in our
break room. So we're not adding to our
footprint at all. We're just going from
one to the other. And of the 3,000
patients, I assume those are unique
patients and not patient visits. Unique
patients. Yeah, so of the 3,000 patients,
I mean, how many are... That's how many
came in and said, 'I'm a patient.' Any
idea how many were... Treatments.
Treatments, yes. Any idea how many were
Spring Hill residents and... What are the
alternatives for them if we force them to
go somewhere else? I'm not sure. I don't
know who our competitor is in this market.
I mean, we have some in Murfreesboro, but
we're located and they would have to go
somewhere else if they stayed with us,
which is maybe who their prescriber would
give. They would go to Mount Juliet or
Bellevue or Skyline. Those would be their
closest alternatives. And we're talking
about people who would be treated
potentially multiple times a week. Right.
Well, maybe not, maybe once a week, but
the problem is we have a lot of people
that have mobility issues. And so getting
places, getting other places, it can be
difficult for them. And sometimes they
have to come through services who bring
them to locations. So. Thank you.
Questions for Ms. Nicks? Vice Mayor? Go
ahead. I was going to try to speak a
little bit. I know with some of the
comparisons in the previous ones, as well
as this one, I tried to give you a
comparison for this facility of what has
been used, measured, projected, just to
give you a comparison for the appendix C
that developmental services saying, okay,
here's what our baseline for establishing
allowance is. That was the whole purpose
of giving you additional information. For
example, in Miss Cindy's case, to go
through Appendix C, just straight up with
the number of patients, doctors, and
everything, just shy of 350 gallons a day.
Their measured practice for a similar
facility, which you can see the numbers
there, would be 225, but they're only
actually using about 100 gallons a day.
Engineer, I know this moratorium stuff has
come in late for both practices. As the
outsider, I've got an existing office
building permitted as an office building.
It was allotted something when it was
built for a use without changing the use
of the facility, which is an office
building for either tenant. I know y'all
are working through that and everybody
y'all are kind of as new to it as I am
almost, y'all got a few rounds of this on.
I don't see it where it's adding burden to
what was already allocated with the
original shell building. But anyway, I've
tried to provide the numbers based on the
appendix C as described with Mr. Will, let
me start, Mr. Allen, and I spoke with Mr.
Will last week with their part also, just
going, they said they were going to use
appendix C for any allocations. We should
be well below anything they would have
there with either practice if you look at
the two things. So that's where I just
wanted to weigh in and try to clarify
because I know Alderman Canepari mentioned
earlier about some of the altered numbers.
That's what I was doing, just trying to
give you as much comparative information
as I could. If it's a four-day work week,
as many medical facilities are or a five
day week. Here's what these would, would
work out to, based on the measured
comparator. And we're five days a week, so
we don't stray from it. We don't change.
Thank you, Vice Mayor Linville. Thank you,
mayor. I know that it just happens to be
that basically the first two requests that
we got were from a Spring Hill citizen and
a Spring Hill local business. There will
be ones in the future where that is not
the case. But I think as the board's
making consideration, they should put a
lot of weight into the fact that they've
been here present in the community, been
serving citizens here in Spring Hill. And
so as we're thinking about what kinds of
projects do we want to allocate any sort
of tenant improvements for, I think that
should weigh heavily. Thank you, Vice
Mayor Linville, Alderman Fuqua. Thank you,
Mayor. Mr. Little, moving forward, I don't
see anything attached to this. The other
one would use stamp a letter similar to
the previous one on. I have sent one for
Miss Newks. Is that what you're asking?
Okay, so. So staff. Staff has it. They
could provide it to us when we look at a
resolution. They have that with it. With
the appendix C, much as I referenced
there. That's perfect. That's one of the
things that I've been looking for. In line
with this, I mean, you have a business
owner here that exists within the city.
They're not looking for an expanse. We're
not talking about a sewer allocation
necessarily. Is the square footage
increasing? Is there a new toilet, a new
sink? Is something interchanging
differently between the location that
they're currently in and where they're
going? The location that they're proposing
to go is actually next to the Southern
Roots tenant space. So it is in a tenant
space that has not had a previous tenant.
And so therefore, they are, their sewer
demand would be a new demand, and then the
space that they are vacating would then be
eligible for someone to move in with sewer
demand of equal or less than the previous.
So that's, we're not taking this sewer
demand and moving it over there. We're
taking this business, moving it over
there, resulting in new sewer demand,
meanwhile someone is eligible to slide in.
And, and impact the system similarly to
this business. Perhaps I missed that. I
thought once the vacancy was pulled, that
was no longer eligible. So I misunderstood
that. Next request is, if that's the case
with you, you all's office, I mean, that
should be administratively and not seen by
us. Okay, makes sense. The one, Alderman
Fuqua, the one caveat to that is that they
have attempted to provide us some data
that might show a previous tenant use in
that space and that's part of what we're
taking into considering in our evaluation
of it. I guess what I gave you was a
comparison facility, not necessarily one
that is there, but I guess to go back to
what Miss Dara had mentioned, It's not a
new service in my mind. You've got an
existing building. It was allocated for
something, so it's not a new allocation.
So how, I guess, when I do it... Sir,
prior to the sewer moratorium, we did not
make individual allocations to buildings
or developments. I guess there was a
burden already considered for the facility
with the infrastructure. Correct. And
then... When you build a building... And
then with the consent order and the
moratorium, the rules change. That. So
that's. That's. It's. It's a snapshot of
actual versus projector. Right. So when
the moratorium goes into a place, it's
about what's actually active and what's
actually contributing out of the building.
Okay. Versus new usage on top of that
within those. Within those. I wanted to
get my mind around to help talk better
with everybody, which is why it. It's very
challenging, because what part of what
piece? How do we take into account and how
do we measure and account that? So those
are the things that we're working through.
As an engineer representing developers,
owners, if you've got an existing
building, you're not taking a change of
use. A shell building, you'll never think
of it as this is not covered already in
the infrastructure growth plan versus I'm
trying to build something out of the
ground. At the moment in time the
moratorium was acting, it's not producing
any They were negotiating leases. It was
all potential. We could make it real
simple. You know, at the time of the
moratorium, were there people in there
using the restroom or not? If they weren't
using the restroom, they're not in. If
they were, then maybe we can have a
conversation. Floor is still yours,
Alderman Fuqua. My same comments to the,
previous request remains to vice mayor
Linville's point. You take a great deal of
consideration in regard to Spring Hill,
the business existing family that's trying
to, to, to grow. It does remain the same
that it's is going to be a a burden on the
system. I should reiterate it. That
reserve is something that we're going to
have to be very hesitant to allocate. I
will certainly consider it. I can't give a
definite yes or no. Thank you, Alderman
Fuqua, Alderman Jimenez. Thank you, Mayor.
I know this is so simple and I know you
guys have thought about this way before
me. Can we not just take their water bill
and say, hey, over the past 12 months
they've used X gallons, this is the
average usage that we were looking, I'm
assuming we're doing that, right? Well, we
don't, I went to the lady who manages the
building and it's not separate metered
separate. Okay, so that's why, because
that's the first thing I did was to go get
I had to go find a comparable comparator
facility. That is so, see that's why that
was so easy that there's no way I came up
with that for the first time. The next
question is this, I know you mentioned
many different illnesses that are covered
by your your business. How many of those
if you were to guess just off the hip have
mobility issues that if we said hey no
more you got to go to Mount Juliet, maybe
they couldn't drive there or they had to
rely on a ride to get get there versus
people that just drive up, jump out, run
in, get their service and run back out. I
could get that number for you. I would be
interested. Yeah, because I don't think we
have a whole lot of people who hop out
and, you know, go in. These, most people
who come there are pretty ill, and it's
chronic and ongoing. It's not like it's
ever going to be better. It's just to
maintain their life, you know, and to
keep. Keep them alive. And so, and that's
not the, that's not the, the golden
ticket, right? That's not the, hey, I got
this, it's yes, you know? Yeah, yeah. But
what I'm saying is we're also talking
about the displacement of our citizens
that live here in the city of Spring Hill
and saying, hey, sorry about your, your
service that went away. So that's a,
that's a metric. You know, I know we have
the engineering side of things, which is
great. The engineering only tells a little
bit of the story. The challenge is, as we
progress through what it is we're
progressing through, through. We're going
to get more sharp on the things we, we
require demand in order to make a
decision. The other side of this is, it
was mentioned earlier, we can't say yes to
everybody. Right. But when you're talking
about the comfort of the citizens, the
medical Provisions, things like that, I
think there's more consideration than if
you came to us and said, hey, I want to
boil 50 extra hot dogs a day, and we have
a hot dog saying, here's what we're going
to do. And I get the part that we're we're
opening a new space and someone's going to
take that space, which now we have to look
at twofold, right? How much are they going
to take there? How much are we going to
lose over here? So, but having those
metrics, and maybe this goes for people in
the future that are looking to apply for
the position you are, is how many people
do we serve here? What types of people and
what types of additional services are we
going to provide to, to, to help the
community? Because that's what I'm
interested in. How are we going to better
the community with what little we have
because we will run out. And when we run
out, I need a speech person, obviously.
I'm not trying to be disrespectful. I'm
just trying to understand. We've been here
five years serving this community. Right.
Helping P, helping these patients who come
right over here, you know, and I'm gonna
get somebody after you that's been here 10
years. Yeah. And then someone after that
has been here. That is a consideration.
Don't get me wrong. Yeah. And again, I'm
not saying no by any means, what I'm
saying is show me how many, right? Because
that's, we can agree, listen, if, if your
practice wasn't doing well, you'd have
pulled out. You wouldn't be moving. The
other side of it is we have to consider
that and understand how does this benefit
the community? At the end of the day, I
have to look these other citizens in the
eyes, maybe the person that's been doing
it for two years, that their business
started as a, you know, a little office
inside an office that now expands. Landed.
And maybe what they provide is what the
community really, really needs. Right.
These are all just consideration factors.
And I believe that in the future, when
people come with these, it's like you're
preparing for court. You don't show up for
a speeding ticket saying, hey, I'm here.
Where are you speeding? I don't know. You
show up with some evidence, and I'm just
asking to expand that evidence. So when I
make a decision and I face a citizen in
the street that we say no to, I can say we
said yes to this because of this. Not
because on that day I felt generous and
gave them some sewer capacity, right?
Because that's not the answer here. So
that's all I have. And I will say, our
specialty is having private suites. You
don't go sit in an open area like you
would at a hospital. We provide a service
to where a person can go into a private
suite. They have a recliner, they can
bring a loved one or somebody to attend
with them. There's a love seat or chair
there. Because they're there for hours. We
provide them with snacks, a TV with
remotes so they can have a private time
because some of these are really long. And
so anyway, we provide a service so they
don't have to go on a hospital campus and
be in an open seat. Create comfort for
people that desire that. Exactly. And
listen, I'm with you. And I'm by no means
saying no, I'm not saying yes. What I'm
saying is give me something to where when
I face these citizens and they say, why
this one? I can say, it's right here. We
got 3,000 people in this city of Spring
Hill that need their services, right?
Versus, I'm going to use a mattress store.
We hear about it all the time on Facebook.
Another mattress store, another Mexican
restaurant, right? Just give me something
to where when I make a determination, I
base it off factual information that I can
tell my constituents that I made this
decision because of this and I stand on
this rock because I believe in it. That's
all I'm asking. Ms. Nix, if you're able to
pull like patient zip codes of those 3,000
care opportunities, I would think that's
relatively easy. That's not disclosing any
PHI or anything. And if we see 37174 and
37179 a whole bunch, I mean, we'll know
that it's Spring Hill people being
directly impacted. Alderman Davis. Thank
you, Mayor. I'm going to echo what
Alderman Jimenez and Mayor Fitterer are
saying. I want some more facts on that.
I'd like also like I would like to see who
your competition is from you guys and how
you're different from the competition. You
gave us just a little nugget, hey, they
have their own place here. I want to know
that so I understand, hey, this is a
different thing. This is, you know, and
this is a question, my next question, you
may not have the answer to, but do you
happen to know who will be going into that
space? And the only reason I asked that is
because if we're going to allocate sewer
capacity to you, maybe the person going
into that space is going to need less
sewer capacity and that could be an
argument. I don't know. But that's why I
was asking that question. Well, it would
have to be less or we'd be right back here
having that conversation with them. Well,
yeah, but not the same, right? I'm talking
about. Correct. Nothing else, Ms. Nicks,
anything else from your end? No, just who
would submit that information to you? I'll
get my. Ms. Sanders and Mr. Allen, who
should be the recipient of the
information? So far we've been asking that
the additional information be submitted to
both Mr. Allen and myself. There you go.
All right, thank you so much. Thank you.
We'll see you in two weeks. Work session
item discussion number three discussion on
the reservoir raw water transmission line
via TVA easement. Mr. Brassfield, I think
this is your first time in front of us
too, so good luck. Will comes to us from
Thomas and Hutton. He's been with us for a
few months now and he's doing a great job
of getting the Spartan team Good evening,
board, Mr. Mayor, thank you. Perhaps it
might show up. So tonight I'm here to
present this exhibit to show the
illustration of the existing TVA
alignment, the right-of-way that's behind
the water treatment plant, and the
proposal of the new raw water transmission
line. We're hoping to install within the
easement up to the reservoir. So in this
exhibit, the blue line from the bottom
coming in is the existing raw water line
going into the water treatment plant. The
yellow line, the red and the upper yellow,
is the proposed line coming in to the
reservoir up the top. The red line is the
actual TVA existing TVA easement with the
overhead power lines. And we're looking to
install the raw water line just on the
outside of that. After reviewing multiple
routing options, the staff believes that
utilizing this TVA easement provides the
most efficient and practical approach for
construction. This alignment minimizes
impacts to the surrounding properties and
offers a direct path to the reservoir. And
we are requesting the board's approval
tonight to proceed with further
coordination and design efforts based on
this proposed approach. Thank you, Mr.
Brassfield. So you're looking for head
nods tonight? Let me just ask, to go from
the reservoir back to the water treatment
plant, would we just run it in reverse?
Yes. There'd be multiple lines laying
parallel to each other. And from the
wastewater reclamation plant up to the
reservoir, we're still talking about going
up by the creek. Yes. Vice Mayor Linville.
Thank you, Mayor. I'm going to ask really,
probably an elementary question, but the
TBA easement is for electrical
infrastructure. Is there any issue with
running water lines through something
that's built for electrical
infrastructure? Their requirements have to
stay away from structures within 25 foot,
so our proposal will be right on the very
edge of the right-of-way. Okay. And we
haven't went out and pulled a tape
measure, but it's significant distance
away. So we would actually have to procure
a right-of-way easement from the
community, but we're not encumbering any
more property. So we're gonna be within
that property that's already designated as
an easement, just go underground. Very
good. We, this is taken right out of the
playbook from the Cumberland Pipeline
Project. These guys recognize that, hey,
we got an opportunity. We've been having
some conversations. There's concern about
making sure that we have enough separation
and trying to run all that just through to
the north, just through those meadow brick
open spaces. Could get a little bit
challenging with the size of the lines
we're potentially talking about. These
guys brought it to me. It's a great idea.
Seems like a path of least resistance to
the treatment plant to me. Makes a lot of
sense. Thank you, Vice Mayor Alderman
Werner. Thank you, Mayor. The question I
have and the question I'm going to get
because I'm already getting it from
Brandon Woods residences, when that
reservoir is being built, and is going to
affect those neighborhoods to clear that,
what kind of effect is this pipeline
digging going to have effect on those
neighborhoods that it runs right through?
Through or behind. Is this a digging or
will there possibly be finding going on to
build this? To be determined. That's why
we're asking to proceed with further
investigation. Possible timeline for, and
I know this is vague and I don't hold you
to it, possible timeline for the length
this will take to put this pipeline in to
be determined. Okay, that's part of our
furthering design criteria. So there
hasn't been any surveying of that land yet
or anything? No, sir. This is just asking
for a pool to move forward with. To get
started with all that. Very good. Very
good. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman
Warner. Alderman Fuqua. Thank you, mayor.
Alderman Warner, I can guarantee you being
familiar with the property. That there's
going to be a lot of blasting. I'm
familiar with the property. I've hiked it
after we purchased it. I went on to the
property and from that yellow line in its
entirety is all through rock. And I'm
gonna make some assumptions being familiar
with the development that you see on the
screen there. That site is mainly rock, so
it's going to be significant. On to my
question with that, with the layout of
this, I know that no structures can be
built within 75 feet of the furthest line
on those transmission lines. Are we going
directly on it under? Are we going to go
next to it? Like, how close will we be to
property lines? And I know that you can't
fully answer that, but I'm, I am curious
to Alderman Warner's point going through,
I guess that would be, is it Roanoke
Woods? Yes. On how close we would be to
essentially backyards? We would utilize
the standard practice of, I think it's 10
foot on either side of the pipe, and for
the utility right of way, but we would
back that up to the edge of TVAs. So
basically, if this is the edge of TVA, a
house is here, our line would be over here
to where our right of way does not cross
over. Okay, so it wouldn't be, it would be
X amount of feet off of of their vertical
structures. Yes, correct. Not outside of
their line, I guess, transmission line.
I'm not fully understand what you're
saying. The overhead line. So, you know,
they're booms and then they have the
outfall. So we would be under that rather
outside of that. Pretty much, yes. Okay,
cool. Alderman Canepari. Thanks, mayor. I
think I know the answer to this, but I'm
going to ask it anyway. Have we explored
the possibility of T-DOT since we're going
to bury the pipe using some of their
easement before they widen the 65 there? I
don't believe there's any T-DOT. Right
away. It's going to be covered in this
project with the line for TBA. We would.
Not with 65. I mean, it would. Are we
going to buy the. The yellow line? Are we
going to have to purchase that property?
That's already the part of the Reservoir
property. Yes. Okay. Oh, that's acreage.
Oh, take it back. This is basically just
connecting the dots between what we
already own and the right away. I missed
that. I do want to reiterate something
that Will said earlier though. We're
looking for the head nod so that we can
make applications start this process. It
takes some time to work through it with
them and if they say yes to it and allow
us to go forward we'll still have to go
through some easement acquisition. So
there's this big of an easement there and
we're talking about being right on the
edge just in side of it, we would still
likely have to go back and negotiate that
easement for that portion of the waterline
even within the TVA easement because it's
likely only been negotiated to this point
as an electrical easement and so we'd have
to get the water easement stacked on top
of that. So there still would be some
outlay. That's why we want to start the
conversation now so we're getting all this
stuff in place as we get ready to ramp up
for construction. This just will save us a
lot of time. I think you got head nods
tonight. Go get after it. Thank you. Last
item for the evening, discussion on a
legislative agenda, Mr. Napier. Thank you,
Mr. Mayor, members of the board. This is
staff's attempt to understand the
direction that you have as it relates to
engaging during the legislative process.
Legislative session that we're currently
in pursuant to what we would recommend you
consider for your priorities of the
legislative efforts of the city. This
would be super helpful for staff to
understand so that number one, we can
follow your lead and carry out the
dialogue to hopefully move forward with
respect to these important items, but also
with regard to items that you may not see
on the list. That you would like to have
considered as we attempt to advocate and
work with both you and the legislators
that represent us in the assembly to
hopefully do good things from a
legislative standpoint over the next
throughout the session. And so with that,
if there are any questions or directions,
otherwise we'd be happy to entertain
those. Mr. Napier, do you want to kind of
clip through them one by one just as a
highlight of what the legislative action
would be? Absolutely. I can do that, your
honor, thank you. Pertaining to the tax
split with cities and towns as it relates
to the historic rate of shared sales tax,
we are hopeful that we can advocate for
restoring that rate to the full 7% versus
just what's allocated currently to the 6%.
That's what that first bullet entails. The
second bullet entails the idea of giving
more flexibility to the single article tax
cap that's currently in place, even if it
means being consistent with what it is the
state currently enjoys in the same taxing
dimension as it relates to Transfer tax
receipts. We are hopeful that those
receipts can be shared back to counties as
well as cities and towns if possible with
regard to legislative ideas that may come
forward in that respect. As it relates to
construction delivery, we are hopeful that
design-build can be among the toolbox that
cities and towns use. Like is the case
with construction manager at risk and as
well with respect to what the state and
IDB agencies currently enjoy with
design-build, we are hopeful that
legislation that requires cities and towns
to participate in providing for cost
sharing for ambulance services be opposed,
wherein currently cities and towns do not
have to incur those types of cost sharing
requirements. And then finally, with
respect to efforts to make local elections
partisan, we're hopeful that the board
would see fit to oppose those efforts as
well. There's a couple items that we would
like to keep an eye out for that don't
appear to be so far being put forward in
draft bills, and you can see those two at
the bottom of your list in your memo.
Thank you, Mr. Napier. Just tack on that a
little bit. The governor gave his state of
the state address this evening while we're
sitting here. I was hoping to find the
budget. His budget gets released with the
state of the state address. It's not
posted online yet, but as far as restoring
the state shared sales tax, the removal of
the single article tax cap or share of the
transfer tax receipts. I think what Mr.
Napier and Mr. Carter and myself have all
heard from a variety of lobbyists and
legislatures is those items are either
likely to all move together in tandem, but
the fiscal note on them is sufficient
enough that it's not, if it's not included
in the governor's budget, it's essentially
a non-starter. I mean, it's to the tune of
around $300 million in total. So if the
governor included in his budget, it's got
a chance. If the governor did not include
it in his budget, it's probably dead for
this fiscal year. But that should be
available later this evening or tomorrow.
Around the IDB in design build for
municipalities, I believe I believe staff
and myself have seen some draft
legislation. I know it was filed on the
Senate side that would suggest it would be
available to municipalities of a certain
size for projects of a certain dollar
value and greater. The House filing bill
deadline is tomorrow. I've not seen a
House bill number on it yet. I don't know
if you have. Based off who the Senate
sponsor is, I would be shocked if there's
not a House bill. Companion with it. We do
have a lot of local noise from some of our
county commissioners, specifically our
Williamson County commissioners, around
expecting municipalities to start to cost
share in ambulance services. By state law,
counties are required to provide ambulance
coverage. Williamson County has been here
for eight years or so, and there are two
county commissioners in particular who are
very vocal about their opposition to that
state law and standard. So personally, it
feels unlikely that a couple of county
commissioners are going to get a statewide
bill changed, but I think it's something
we definitely need to watch on. And given
the added complexity of being in two
counties, it's certainly going to be
important for us as well. But I'll think
of it as we talk here. Alderman Fuqua. I'm
sorry, I know what it is. So see, all that
I had to do is call you. There were Sumner
County, Murray County, Williamson County,
A couple other counties in West Tennessee
that tried to push for a bill that would
give counties a seat at annexation votes,
that any annexation within the UGB after a
municipal approval would then go to a
county for approval as well. I have not
seen a Senate bill filed on that. I have
not seen a House bill filed on that. Last
I saw, they were, they were pursuing
potential bill sponsors and, and they were
kind of down to the bottom of the barrel.
So I think we'll continue to hear noise on
that locally because Murray and Williamson
County Commissioners are talking that way.
Candidates for Murray County mayor are
talking that way, but I have not seen a
bill on it. So Alderman Fuqua Thank you,
Mayor. I am and haven't read through it
yet, but looking at information from Mayor
Sheila Butt, the impact fee discussion has
now gone away to a real property transfer
tax. Yeah, that's the third bullet in the
memo. Yeah, that's okay. Yeah, missed that
one. Yeah, and that's got like $155
million fiscal note. So if Governor Lee
included it, It's got a shot. If it
doesn't, the fiscal note will probably
kill the bill. Vice Mayor Linville. Thank
you, Mayor. I do think from a personal
view, I think all of the things that were
highlighted in the memo are worthy of us
putting some effort behind. I think the
one that I would highlight is the share of
transfer tax receipts going to counties
and cities for road funding. This allows
me an opportunity to get in my soapbox a
little bit. But the way that I've said
this multiple times, the way that the
state currently funds road projects is not
sustainable for the long term to meet the
needs that Tennessee has if we're going to
be a state that continues to grow and
attract businesses, opportunities, jobs,
the the way it currently is. And so
whether, I think this is a great, great
thing that is being put forward. This is,
goes in line with what was proposed by
Williamson, Inc. and Williamson County
last term. But whether it's, whether it's
this or whether it's some other solution,
the state, we have to rethink what road
funding looks like at the state level in a
serious way, because the, the longer that
we, we just punt the ball down the field,
the more the the further and further the
state gets behind. Because, you know, we
all experience the needs that we have in
Spring Hill for transportation investment.
But the thing is that that's not unique to
any part of the state. Every part of the
state has the same needs that we're
feeling. And so there's really just a need
for us to, in a thoughtful, meaningful
way, change how road funding is happening
in Tennessee. Thank you, Vice Mayor
Linville. I think depending on who you
ask, at T-dot, we have somewhere between
58 billion and 77 billion dollars worth of
roadway infrastructure needed today. One
highlight that I was able to find out of
the governor's state of the state address
is he's going to allocate an additional
425 million towards roadway
infrastructure. And 425 million is a lot
of money, certainly more money than I
have. But it doesn't make much of a dent
into 58 billion. I think what direction
Mr. Napier here is looking for, if there
are particular items that we feel we want
to formally support or oppose, we could do
so by resolution, not going to ask anybody
to be put on the spot tonight unless
there's something you which is feel
passionate about or have a soapbox about,
Vice Mayor Linville. But I would advise
you within the next week to 10 days, if
there are particular items that you feel
strong about supporting or opposing, get
that information to Mr. Carter or Mr.
Napier so we can work our various sources
and then we can potentially have a
resolution or seven together for the
voting session and get these passed before
we really start working into committee
hearings. Mr. Carter, please. I think it
would be best to route those through me
and then I can get them to the committee.
Let's do that then. Anything else on this?
All right, round table discussion.
Alderman Fuqua, you said you had something
for us. Yes, Mayor, thank you. Just want
to bring up in round table at BFAC, I
brought some last minute items and direct
us to Ms. Holden. I wanted to share with
this board. So we have talked, and I
guess, Mr. Allen, I probably should have
reached out to you today, but I got busy.
My apologies. In regards to the water and
sewer project and expansions, we have
talked about a number, which is $200
million. We have not formally started the
process to really hone in some actuals.
Looking at some of the documents that
we've been sharing through BFAC, I have
some concerns. And, Mr. Allen, we've
talked about this of what we're going to
be spending in water and sewer and things
like going up a TVA easement that I expect
is going to be about eight $1 million by
some simple math that I did on what we can
do. We're moving forward with
conversations on a library. We're moving
along with conversations about CSA and
other things. I am very afraid of getting
to a point to where water and sewer is
going to cap us on other projects and
without the information of what those real
costs will be. I think that we're making
some decisions arbitrarily. I could be
completely wrong, but I think having that
in front of us and then making changes
with the market on hard numbers is a
little better than being speculative. Mr.
Allen, I'd love to hear your comments
towards that and maybe a timeline that we
could start honing in on some of those
things. That way when we make good
financial decisions forward with things
like a library or a skate park or anything
else that's on on the CIP list. With that,
I've heard some rumblings with CSA, which
is essentially item number one for water
and sewer and getting that, and that we're
having some difficulties getting that
funded adequately and appropriately. So
one of the ideas that I had, and I reached
out to Mr. Carter today, is water and
sewer is taking a space that public works
currently holds, and they're having to
move to CSA is the probability of
wastewater dollars or wastewater funding
buying the real property from public
works. That way we can have this facility
over here fully constructed in its
capacity as identified in CIP. I know six
months ago when we talked, it seemed like
we have the funding sources and things
ready to roll. We're at a point to where
that doesn't exist today. I want to move
forward with this. You know, some of you
got elected. It was identified in your
election process that you were go-getters
and it was time to go in and make projects
happen. We're gonna have to get creative.
So one of my ideas, I think Mr. Carter is
gonna call the comptroller to see what the
legal capabilities of that transfer is for
that real property, if we can or cannot do
it. Mr. Napier, I would love to have a
conversation soon and. And kind of where
the hiccup was and where we're at. A
little better communication for the board
ongoing of where we're at with these
things, because they come to me with
questions, I can't answer them, and that's
not a position at all. And then last thing
is funding. We just spent three and a half
million dollars on a construction team. We
have two identified projects, one that
looks like half funded, the Battle Creek
that's fully funded, but we need to look
in its future for different funding
mechanisms to keep them busy. So Miss
Holden has said that she's going to
funding that way. When we're done with one
thing, we have the very next thing. But
that's the update from my routing session.
Thank you, Alderman Fuqua. If that is
legal and it passes an auditor smell test,
it is a very creative solution. Can I
respond to that real quick just to save us
some time? You know the answer. Yeah. So a
couple things. When we went through the
design process, It's been a few months
back, but Mr. Scroggins approached me and
said, Hey, we need some more room for the
fleet building and some things like that
as we were looking at the best layout of
the site. So, Water and Sewer actually
gave up their portion of the site so that
Public Works could take on more of what
they needed and accommodate it over there.
So, in the current proposed plan and how
things are going forward, Water and Sewer
has no involvement with that property
whatsoever. So I don't know how you could
justify us paying a portion of the
building construction when we have no
intention of being out there, period. What
we have offered is to assist with some
in-house construction on the water lines
to serve the site, as well as we had quite
a series of conversations about trying to
do the same thing on the sewer. We have
some concerns about some of the sewer
construction. So I believe that's going to
be subbed out to a contractor, still be
obviously watched by Mr. Scroggins and his
team as they do it. But I had offered that
the water and sewer fund would still pay
for that portion of the construction to at
least offset that cost. So there's some
things that we'll have to do to make sure
that that's done properly. That that's
certainly okay. But we would have no
justification to offset the, the vertical
construction because we're not planning
part of it? Correct. Just to give you a
little clarity on where I was going. So
Public Works is relocating over there,
leaving what I estimate by Google Maps
about 19 and a half acres for the sewer
expansion. So the transfer of sewer funds
would go for the purchase of the 19 and a
half acres Public Works currently
utilizes. Spring Hill Water would buy 19
and a half acres from Public Works. Public
Works. Where Public Works is currently
located? On the site that Spring Hill
Water already owns. Like I said, if it's
legal and passes an audit test, it's
potentially a really creative solution.
I'll make sure and bring my boxing gloves
for that meeting. Yeah, and creative, but
We have a problem on our hands. And
looking for a solution, no matter what it
takes, I'm open to all suggestions. I
would expect that everybody in the room be
too. Alderman Hartwell. Alderman Werner.
Alderman Jimenez. Thank you, Mayor. I'm
just going to introduce everyone to my
little pet peeve that I have. Regarding,
well, business owners watch this. If you
have an American flag in front of your
office or your building, please take care
of it. If it's not serviceable any longer,
please pull it down. I get to drive to my
office each and every day, and I see many,
many flags that should have been taken
down long, long ago. An American flag is
not there to be a decoration. An American
flag represents something. It represents
sacrifice from people who have made
sacrifice, people who will make sacrifice
and people that do sacrifice. To have a
representation of that poorly taken care
of doesn't mean you don't care. It just
means you may have forgot that you put it
out there. So do me a favor. If you're
watching this, take a chance tomorrow. Go
out, take a look at your flag. I know
mine's in good shape. And ask yourself, is
it discolored? Is it torn? Is it ripped?
Is it hung properly? And if the answer is
no, pull it down and replace it. If the
answer is I don't know, the internet will
tell you or make a phone call. If you need
to retire a flag, I know there's boxes
here, there's boxes at every fire station,
I have a box, please just do this country
a service in your state of service and
make sure that your flags are serviceable.
That's all I got. Thank you, Alderman
Jimenez. Alderman Canepari. Thanks, Mayor.
I've got two items. First, for Mr. Allen,
if it's our land and Public Works was
there all this time, get the back rent if
this goes through. That's one. I mean,
come on, you're the landlord. All right,
so number two would be, I want to set the
record straight. I said something at the
last meeting, the last Bulmer meeting in
December about my request for public
information. I said something to the
effect that I was still waiting for some
of the information. I didn't get it all.
Well, Mr. Carter and Ms. Goad followed up
with me a couple of weeks ago or maybe
last week. And pointed out the fact that,
well, I hadn't read it carefully.
Everything was there in the packet that I
got back. So I want to make a public
apology to Miss Goad and Miss Stahl for
the excellent work they did, hard work
putting that package together, which was,
I forget how many emails it was, but it
was a lot. And I'll do better in the
future. Thank you for saying that,
Alderman Canepari, Alderman Davis. Thank
you, Mayor. I just wanted to give the city
and our board an update on our, this is a
little bit of a happy note of our Fourth
of July celebration that's coming up that
the Spring Hill Chamber is taking the
charge on for us. I just wanted to say our
location set fire and Brent's part of this
too, firework company set entertainment
secured. We did. They did apply for the
grant, which was denied. They're going to
apply again for the grant. Grant
sponsorship and donation opportunities are
becoming available. Signage is going out
around town and to HOAs, and you can also
drop by the Spring Hill chamber if you
would like to partake in that and help
donate towards this celebration. I know
they're trying to raise funds for it. So
we're excited to see how that is and to
celebrate together as a community,
America's birthday. Thank you, Alderman
Davis, Alderman Murray. Thank you, Mayor.
I just had a real quick thank you to all
of our leadership, our staff, all the hard
workers that really did just a fantastic
job As we've tried to navigate through
this, I will call it an unprecedented,
because it's been more years than I care
to remember since we had an ice storm like
that. But just thank you so much for your
dedication to the city. I want to thank
the citizens that reached out to other
neighbors that lost power. Maybe they
didn't have power, just a real Total
effort on this city being able to take on
the storm, do what we could, and try to
get things remedied as quickly as
possible. For that, I just want to say
thank you for all that work. And we really
appreciate what you do each and every day.
But in times like that, even thank you
more. I know thank you's probably not
enough, but but thank you more for how you
step up time in and time out when the city
is in need. So thank you. Thank you,
Alderman Murray. Vice Mayor Linville.
Thank you, Mayor. I just want to piggyback
on one of Alderman Fuqua's comments. We
talked about this briefly at B-FAC as
well, but in regards to some of the sewer
discussions, moving public works, all
those sorts of things, I don't think it's
a secret. You know, we talked about it for
an sent a period of time today with
multiple tenant improvements that the
sewer, you know, expansion project,
project Swift is a critical path for us as
a city. And I know that we have, we're
aligning resources towards that end,
Spartan team, all that sort of stuff. But
if there's anything that, that we need
from a board level to help accelerate the
process and help to make sure that we're
keeping things on track, certainly want to
be kept kept apprised of that and make
sure that our staff has all the resources
that we need available to make sure that
we deliver that project as quickly as we
can for citizens. And so I know that's
been kind of a clear direction of the
board. And again, just want to reiterate
if there is anything else that we can do
or anything we need to be aware of.